Audio libraries for Windows
---------------------------

The G3N engine audio support currently depends on the following external libraries:
- openal        - for spatial audio
- libogg        - for Ogg container format
- libvorbis     - for vorbis decoder support
- libvorbisfile - for reading/decoding ogg vorbis files

This guide describes the procedure to get and build Windows dlls for these
libraries from sources.

1. Download and install Microsoft Studio Community from:
   https://www.visualstudio.com/downloads/
   I am assuming here that Microsoft Studio 2015 will be used.

2. Download and install CMake from https://cmake.org/download/

3. Download OpenAL soft from http://kcat.strangesoft.net/openal-releases/openal-soft-1.17.2.tar.bz2
   and decompress it in a folder.
   Alternatively you can clone the git respository: https://github.com/kcat/openal-soft
   and checkout the latest tagged release:
   >git checkout tags/openal-soft-1.17.2

4. Execute the "Developer Command Prompt for VS2015" installed by Microsoft Visual Studio.
   It is a command prompt window with environment variables correctly initialized to use
   the MS compiler and tools.

5. In the command prompt, change to the build directory inside the openal
   directory and then to build directory. Then execute the following command:
   >cmake -G "Visual Studio 14 2015 Win64" ..   // TO BUILD 64 bit dll OR
   >cmake -G "Visual Studio 14" ..              // TO BUILD 32 bit dll
   It is import to check in the messages generated by CMake if OpenAL will be built
   using DirectSound.
   If everything is OK, a file "OpenAL.sln" should have been generated in this
   directory between many others.

6. Execute Visual Studio and from its menu, select Open -> Project/Solution...
   Selects the file "OpenAL.sln" generated previously by CMake.
   In the Visual Studio tool box, below the menu, select the build mode "Release". 
   Also in the menu box, if necessary, select the desired architecture: Win32 or x64.
   Then select the menu Build -> Build Solution when the project will start
   being built.
   If everything is OK, the OpenAL.dll should be in the directory "build/Release".
    
7. Download libogg and libvorbis from https://xiph.org/downloads/
   We used the versions:
   - http://downloads.xiph.org/releases/ogg/libogg-1.3.2.zip and
   - http://downloads.xiph.org/releases/vorbis/libvorbis-1.3.5.zip

8. Decompress both files in a directory and rename the decompressed
   directories names removing the version prefix:
   libogg-1.3.2 -> libogg
   libvorbis-1.3.5 -> libvorbis

9. Execute Visual Studio and from its menu, select Open -> Project/Solution...
   Selects the file "libogg\win32\VS2010\libogg_dynamic.sln".
   In the Visual Studio tool box, below the menu, select the build mode "Release". 
   Also in the menu box, select the desired architecture: Win32 or x64.
   Then select the menu Build -> Build Solution when the project will start
   being built.
   If everything is OK, the libogg.dll should be in the directory:
   "libogg\win32\VS2010\x64\Release" for 64 bits or
   "libogg\win32\VS2010\Win32\Release" for 64 bits or

10. Execute Visual Studio and from its menu, select Open -> Project/Solution...
   Selects the file "libvorbis\win32\VS2010\vorbis_dynamic.sln".
   In the Visual Studio tool box, below the menu, select the build mode "Release". 
   Also in the menu box, select the desired architecture: Win32 or x64.
   Then select the menu Build -> Build Solution when the project will start
   being built.
   If everything is OK, the libvorbis.dll and libvorbisfile.dll should be in the directory:
   "libvorbis\win32\VS2010\x64\Release" for 64 bits or
   "libvorbis\win32\VS2010\Win32\Release" for 64 bits or

11. Copy the dlls: OpenAL32.dll, libogg.dll, libvorbis.dll and libvorbisfile.dll
    to the directory from which you will execute a G3N application.





